Quick Links
What Is It?
Microsite Benefits
Are They Necessary?
Microsite Examples

What the heck is a microsite and why do you need one?

First, the good news: If you’ve never heard of microsites, you’re not missing out on something that will make or break your entire digital marketing strategy.

Relatively few campaigns actually deploy a microsite or make good use of them. You can be an inbound marketing pro and never lay your hands on a microsite.

Perhaps for this reason, there’s a lot of confusion as to what a microsite actually is.

What is a Microsite?
A microsite acts as a sub-site centered on a single campaign. It is often a temporary asset that is built for a limited time, either as an individual webpage or a small group of webpages. The microsite includes its own unique content, usually existing on its own domain. However, some live on subdomains. They can be used to target specific buyer personas, enhance awareness efforts, and entice visitors with a specific call to action.

A microsite is a “sub-site” that focuses on a single campaign.

A microsite is not:
A landing page – that’s a page used to generate leads for a particular offer.
A small website – it can be small, but that’s not what makes it a microsite.
A subdomain – but it can have its own subdomain (and usually does).
A microsite is:
Usually temporary, built around a single, time-limited digital marketing campaign.
Packed with its own content built around its own consistent themes and keywords.
Supported by its own social media, video content, email addresses, and interfaces.
They’re handy tools that, even though aren’t necessarily mandatory, can elevate your campaigns.

The Benefits of Microsites
Microsites can be leveraged by businesses to help them accomplish a number of things. They’re built and designed to suit your needs, so they can be as short-term or long-lived as you choose.

Utilize them until you reap as many benefits as you see fit.

You Can Have More Focused or Targeted Content.
With a microsite, you can focus all copy and design on one topic, and that topic can be anything from a new product to an email marketing campaign.

A clear, targeted presentation of a product or service is actually incredibly more valuable to customers who have specific interests. A microsite provides them with the content they’re looking for without a lot of other pages and offers that won’t interest them.

Your Homepage Will Feel Cleaner.
To keep your homepage from becoming overcrowded, congested, or confusing, you can use microsites to feature more specific content in an effort to save space.

In the same sense that microsites provide more focused intent, the same goes for your homepage also. Too many details and opportunities on one site can overwhelm a visitor and turn them off from your business.

You can make a home for your company’s details and another for specific campaigns, providing a better sense of organization and cleanliness to your pages.

You Can Empower Your Brand.
It’s not uncommon for a brand to launch a new product or smaller brand underneath its umbrella. Naturally, you’d want the new entity to stand on its own from the parent brand.

A new launch typically means a new, or at least more specific, target market that needs to be reached. Microsites assist by establishing this new brand, product, or service and keeping it separated from unrelated products or details on the homesite.

Even if it’s only a few pages, letting a microsite market on its own can help bolster and empower its subject’s personal brand.

When Do You Need a Microsite?
The truth is, you never need a microsite.

A microsite is a convenient way of making your campaigns efficient in structure and format. It can refresh your brand’s image in your customers’ minds, but there are some situations where it could undermine your SEO efforts. That makes things more complicated in the long run!

A Microsite Is a Good Idea If ...
A microsite is a good idea if you need to showcase an aspect of your brand that isn’t a core focus or that needs further development.

For example, an IT company might start a microsite to help finance firms self-diagnose their information security vulnerabilities. Within that microsite, they might have a selection of specialized training videos and podcasts not available on the main site.

A Microsite Is a Bad Idea If ...
A microsite can be a bad idea if there’s too much overlap between the value your main site offers and your plan for the microsite.

In the example above, a firm that focuses exclusively on IT security assessments wouldn’t want to break out a microsite just to address finance customers. That would be best handled as a content silo with its own set of landing pages in your main site.

The Best Microsite Examples
Microsites are used in a wide variety of ways and across multiple industries. There really aren’t any rules to their purposes, as long as you’re executing them properly.

Here are some of the coolest (or oddest) microsites in existence right now:

Collaborative Fund: The Bright Future of Car Sharing
With a fun side-scrolling layout, this microsite highlights the growth of car sharing and its impact on the planet. You can hover over sections and graphics to get info snippets in a fun and engaging form of interactivity, keeping users actually interested in learning about car sharing.

Fully illustrated and loaded with information, The Bright Future of Car Sharing is a great example of a microsite built for educational purposes.

The New York Times Magazine: Walking New York
The New York Times Magazine brought a truly unique microsite to users where they can remotely walk the streets of New York City.

Leveraging data from Google Maps, you can take an immersive tour of the city’s more popular areas on their site, learning about some of the most historic sites in The Big Apple.

Chanel: Inside Chanel
When talking about how a microsite can boost your brand, Chanel is a prime example. Inside Chanel is an informational site dedicated to educating visitors about the fashion industry and Chanel’s position within it.

With an impressive archive of videos, you can learn everything from “The Vocabulary of Fashion” to walking down Chanel’s personal history, starting in 1883 with the birth of Gabrielle Chanel.

The microsite does a fantastic job of highlighting all of the company’s successes and growth, giving users a peek behind the curtain of a high-ticket fashion brand